elk/README.md, before:

# Ansible Vagrant profile for ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana)

## Background

Vagrant and VirtualBox (or some other VM provider) can be used to quickly build or rebuild virtual servers.

This Vagrant profile configures two servers:

  1. A server with the ELK stack ([Elasticsearch](http://www.elasticsearch.org/), [Logstash](http://logstash.net/), and [Kibana](http://www.elasticsearch.org/overview/kibana/)) using the [Ansible](http://www.ansible.com/) provisioner.
  2. A server with the Nginx and [Filebeat](https://www.elastic.co/products/beats/filebeat) using the [Ansible](http://www.ansible.com/) provisioner, which routes Nginx access logs to the first server.

## Getting Started

This README file is inside a folder that contains a `Vagrantfile` (hereafter this folder shall be called the [vagrant_root]), which tells Vagrant how to set up your virtual machine in VirtualBox.

To use the vagrant file, you will need to have done the following:

  1. Download and Install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)
  2. Download and Install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html)
  3. Install [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) ([guide for installing Ansible](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/intro_installation.html))
  4. Open a shell prompt (Terminal app on a Mac) and cd into the folder containing the `Vagrantfile`
  5. Run the following command to install the necessary Ansible roles for this profile: `$ ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml`

Once all of that is done, you can simply type in `vagrant up`, and Vagrant will create both new VMs and configure them.

Once the VMs are up and running (after `vagrant up` is complete and you're back at the command prompt), you can log into either one via SSH if you'd like by typing in `vagrant ssh [name]` (either `logs` for the ELK server, or `webs` for the Nginx server). Otherwise, the next steps are below.

### Setting up your hosts file

You need to modify your host machine's hosts file (Mac/Linux: `/etc/hosts`; Windows: `%systemroot%\system32\drivers\etc\hosts`), adding the lines below:

    192.168.9.90  logs.test
    192.168.9.91  webs.test

(Where `logs.test`/`webs.test` is the hostname you have configured in the `Vagrantfile`).

After that is configured, you could visit http://logs.test/ in a browser, and you'll see the Kibana dashboard, and you can visit http://webs.test/, and you'll see Nginx's default index page.

If you'd like additional assistance editing your hosts file, please read [How do I modify my hosts file?](http://www.rackspace.com/knowledge_center/article/how-do-i-modify-my-hosts-file) from Rackspace.

## Author Information

Created in 2014 by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).

Commit message:

Optimized README file for elk example.

elk/README.md, after:

# Ansible Vagrant profile for ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana)

This project builds a two-server ELK stack using Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana, and Filebeat to ship, store, and expose logs.

The first server (`logs`) has the entire ELK stack running, and pushes local auth.log entries into Elasticsearch via Filebeat and Logstash. The second server (`webs`) runs an Nginx webserver and pushes the webserver access.log file and the server's auth.log entries into Elasticsearch via the `logs` server's Logstash instance.

Logs are transmitted securely using a self-signed certificate (see the `elk-vagrant-example` certificate).

## Building the VMs

  1. Download and install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads).
  2. Download and install [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html).
  3. [Mac/Linux only] Install [Ansible](http://docs.ansible.com/intro_installation.html).
  4. Run `ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml` in this directory to get the required Ansible roles.
  5. Run `vagrant up` to build the VMs.

Once the VMs are up and running (after `vagrant up` is complete and you're back at the command prompt), you can log into either one via SSH if you'd like by typing in `vagrant ssh [name]` (either `logs` for the ELK server, or `webs` for the Nginx web server). Otherwise, the next steps are below.

### Setting up your hosts file

You need to modify your host machine's hosts file (Mac/Linux: `/etc/hosts`; Windows: `%systemroot%\system32\drivers\etc\hosts`), adding the lines below:

    192.168.9.90  logs.test
    192.168.9.91  webs.test

(Where `logs.test`/`webs.test` is the hostname you have configured in the `Vagrantfile`).

After that is configured, you could visit http://logs.test/ in a browser, and you'll see the Kibana dashboard, and you can visit http://webs.test/, and you'll see Nginx's default index page.

If you'd like additional assistance editing your hosts file, please read [How do I modify my hosts file?](http://www.rackspace.com/knowledge_center/article/how-do-i-modify-my-hosts-file) from Rackspace.

## Author Information

Created in 2014 by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).
