kubernetes/README.md, before:

# Ansible-based Kubernetes cluster example

This is an example Kubernetes cluster built and managed with Ansible. The example is explained in more detail in Chapter 13 of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).

## Quick Start Guide

### 1 - Install dependencies (VirtualBox, Vagrant, Ansible)

  1. Download and install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads).
  2. Download and install [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html).
  3. [Mac/Linux only] Install [Ansible](http://docs.ansible.com/intro_installation.html).

Note for Windows users: *This guide assumes you're on a Mac or Linux host. Windows hosts are unsupported at this time.*

### 2 - Build the Virtual Machine

  1. Download this project and put it wherever you want.
  2. Open Terminal, cd to this directory (containing the `Vagrantfile` and this README file).
  3. Run `ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml -p ./roles` to install required Ansible roles.
  4. Type in `vagrant up`, and let Vagrant do its magic.

Note: *If there are any errors during the course of running `vagrant up`, and it drops you back to your command prompt, just run `vagrant provision` to continue building the VM from where you left off. If there are still errors after doing this a few times, post an issue to this project's issue queue on GitHub with the error.*

### 3 - Configure your host machine to access the VM.

  1. [Edit your hosts file](http://www.rackspace.com/knowledge_center/article/how-do-i-modify-my-hosts-file), adding the line `192.168.84.3  cluster.k8s.test` so you can connect to the VM.
  2. Open your browser and access [http://cluster.k8s.test](http://cluster.k8s.test).

## Notes

  - To shut down the virtual machine, enter `vagrant halt` in the Terminal in the same folder that has the `Vagrantfile`. To destroy it completely (if you want to save a little disk space, or want to rebuild it from scratch with `vagrant up` again), type in `vagrant destroy`.

## About the Author

This project was created by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/) as an example for [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).

Commit message:

Fixes #164: Kubernetes example says load cluster.k8s.test but there is nothing there by default.

kubernetes/README.md, after:

# Ansible-based Kubernetes cluster example

This is an example Kubernetes cluster built and managed with Ansible. The example is explained in more detail in Chapter 13 of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).

## Quick Start Guide

### 1 - Install dependencies (VirtualBox, Vagrant, Ansible)

  1. Download and install [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads).
  2. Download and install [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html).
  3. [Mac/Linux only] Install [Ansible](http://docs.ansible.com/intro_installation.html).

Note for Windows users: *This guide assumes you're on a Mac or Linux host. Windows hosts are unsupported at this time.*

### 2 - Build the Virtual Machine

  1. Download this project and put it wherever you want.
  2. Open Terminal, cd to this directory (containing the `Vagrantfile` and this README file).
  3. Run `ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml -p ./roles` to install required Ansible roles.
  4. Type in `vagrant up`, and let Vagrant do its magic.

Note: *If there are any errors during the course of running `vagrant up`, and it drops you back to your command prompt, just run `vagrant provision` to continue building the VM from where you left off. If there are still errors after doing this a few times, post an issue to this project's issue queue on GitHub with the error.*

### 3 - Configure your host machine to access the VM.

  1. [Edit your hosts file](http://www.rackspace.com/knowledge_center/article/how-do-i-modify-my-hosts-file), adding the line `192.168.84.3  cluster.k8s.test` so you can connect to the VM.

### 4 - Deploy applications to the Kubernetes cluster

For details on how to deploy all these examples, please refer to chapter 14 in Ansible for DevOps. One quick example you can test locally:

  1. cd into the 'examples' directory, and run the `k8s-module.yml` playbook, which creates an Nginx deployment and service on the cluster: `ansible-playbook -i ../inventory k8s-module.yml`
  2. Copy the nodePort from the final task output in that playbook; this is the port on which Nginx is accessible.
  3. Open your browser and access [http://cluster.k8s.test:32474/](http://cluster.k8s.test:32474/) (assuming nodePort is `32474`).

## Notes

  - To shut down the virtual machine, enter `vagrant halt` in the Terminal in the same folder that has the `Vagrantfile`. To destroy it completely (if you want to save a little disk space, or want to rebuild it from scratch with `vagrant up` again), type in `vagrant destroy`.

## About the Author

This project was created by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/) as an example for [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).
